Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
about function
call stack
Firstly let us see how function calls are handled inside
the memory. In C programming
we have four major memory sections in RAM. First text or
code section, second global/ static section, third heap section
and fourth stack section. In text section
we have the read only executable programming instructions which
cannot be modified.
In global section we will have all the global and
static variables.
Dynamic memory allocation happens in heap memory section
that is, if we allocate memory using malloc or
calloc
at run time
those allocations will happen in the heap section and
finally all the local variables and function calls are created
in the stack section.
Now consider this C code,
first we have an integer variable declared globally so it is
placed in the global section and we have studied that
global variables are initialised with zero by default.
So the variable result will have the value zero. Next
main function will be executed first and as we discussed
all the function calls will be placed in the stack
section so the main function will be pushed into the
stack and the local variables a=10 and b=20
will be created in the stack section inside
the main function
Now we are calling the same function with arguments a
and b
The new function call will be pushed into the stack
The stack operates on last in first out principle so the
main function's execution will be stopped and the lastly inserted
sum function will be executed.
Here we have the parameters x and y having the copies
of a and b so x=10 and
y= 20
Next we have int ans = x+y so
a new integer variable ans will be created inside the
sum function and result 30 will be stored
Now we return ans to main and the value 30
will be stored in the global variable result
Now the function sum is executed completely and it will
be popped out of stack that is discarded from the
memory
Next we have a print statement
So what is a printf actually? it is an inbuilt
function so it will also be pushed into the stack
Now it will work and print result equal to 30
and it is completed now so it will be popped
out of the stack
Now the main function's execution will be resumed and it
will execute the return zero statement Now the main function's
task is also over
So it will also be popped out from the stack
This is how program execution happens When we run the
programme. Now let us see another programme execution begins from
the main function so it will be pushed into the
stack
and in main we create the local variable ans and
call cube(5) So cube is a user defined function
it is called here so control is passed to it
so it will be pushed into the stack
now in cube we have the parameter n, and it
will have value five
now we create a local integer variable c and we
have n x square(n) that is
c = 5 x square(5)
so we are calling another function square
so it is pushed onto the stack and we have
the parameter n and so a local variable n created and
it will have the value five next we create an
integer variable s and find n x n that is
five x five which is 25 & will be stored in
s next we return s to calling function cube
and now it will be popped out of stock
now in cube function we have c = 5 x 25
we get 125 and it will be
stored in c
and in next statement we are returning it to main
so function cube is also popped out of this tack
now in main we call printf function so it will
be pushed onto the stack and it will print value(cube(5))
which is 125 and immediately popped
out of this stack
Now in main function we return zero and it is
also completed and will be popped out from the stack
So this is how it works
So that's all and thank you for watching this video